So, let's go edit on code is code sandbox.
Top over to trees or
I think they call it bst right here,
bst.test and I want you to implement
I think I just have to add I don't
think I actually have you do.
Let me just check to make sure that
I asked you to do the right things.
So I just have you do add,
I don't actually have you ever do delete.
So as a stretch goal, maybe later
when your brain kind of recovers from
learning all this stuff, you might
come back and try and do deletes.
But for now, let's just go ahead and
stick to adds, so
let's actually just kinda
get you started here.
Bst, So
I might give you a constructor here and
just set this.root = null,
it's probably a good one to do right away.
You're gonna do an add which
is gonna take a value,okay.
So you're gonna have to have some
logic around,if this is the root.
Okay, and
then you're gonna have to do some sort
of find the correct place to add.
And so
there's two ways you can do the add,
here in my particular course notes,
I do it via a while loop,
so this could be or.
Another thing you could do here is you
could create a node class down here,
that's a constructor that takes a value.
You'll say this.value = value,
you'll say this.left = null,
and this.right = null.
You could potentially if you wanted
to create an add method on this,
that takes the value and
then this could be called recursively.
So that's another potential.
We'll be doing it with the while
loop here but just know that's also
another possibility here,
depending on how you wanted to do it.
And then The other thing
that might be helpful.
Is if you do a toObject method here and
just return the root, so this return.root.
I actually wrote a little
visualization helper for you.
So if you hop over to The source here and
look at tree.js.
This will actually help you visualize
your whole app here if this will load.
So you can see here I had this tree,
if you return it to an object and
it has value left and right.
You can ignore height, cuz we'll talk
about height here in just a second, so
ignore height.
But if you pass it a root node
that has left and right nodes,
this will actually visualize it here for
you as well.
But you don't have to do that right now,
I'll show you how to do it when
we do our solution together.
For now,
just get all the adds working correctly.
>> How is this any different from running
a binary search on the sorted array?
>> How is this any different than
running a binary search [INAUDIBLE]?
Well, one's an algorithm for
finding something in a sorted array,
and one of them is a data structure
used for storing information.
Now you might ask,
why would you ever use a binary search
tree over something like a sorted array?
And it has to do with how you would
allocate things in memory, right?
So for a sorted array, you might try
store that as a, an array list right,
where everything is laid
out sequentially in memory.
Which is not usually gonna
be possible particularly for
something like a database index, right?
Cuz those database indexes could
be pointed to objects that
are enormous, right?
So this would be more, something where you
cannot be constrained by the memory you
can kind of point to wherever
things want to be in memory.
There's other uses for trees too,
that's just kinda the most classic one and
the one that I have in my
head at the moment [LAUGH].
But it's, yeah, I guess at the end
of the day one's a algorithm for
finding things on a sorted array and
one of them is a data structure for
storing lots of data in memory or
on disk for that matter.
So, it depends.
>> A big chunk in the heap memory,
you can just sprinkle it around
then use pointers to [INAUDIBLE].
>> Exactly Yeah,
>> It's less prone to, it's fragmenting
the memory alert, but
it can find the space for
itself easier on a fragment, yeah, right.
Fragmentation is something far less
concerning these days with just how memory
works, right.
It used to be much bigger concern, but,
and in fact in this case, it's helpful,
right, because we don't have to worry
about knowing ahead of time how much data
we're gonna allocate.
So the first thing that
we're gonna wanna do,
with our tree is, just gonna erase this.
If this.root ===null,
then we need to create the root, right.
So we'll say this.root = new Node(value),
right, that's it.
Otherwise wanna say let
current = this.root,
and then we're gonna use
a while loop to try and
find where it should go.
So we're gonna say while and
let me make sure this is not running
when I do this because we're gonna write
a quick while true loop, cool.
So we're gonna do a while true loop
because we want this loop to just
keep running until we tell it to stop,
right.
There's always gonna be somewhere to
put the add or to put this new node.
So we're never going to run into
a place where we don't wanna it.
So that's why this is an okay opportunity
for us to use a while true loop.
So first thing I'm gonna say is
if current.value > value,
then go left other otherwise go right,
right.
Then inside of here we'll say,
if there's a current.left
Then we're gonna say current is assigned,
current.left.
I mean, the loop run again.
If it's not then we're finally
supposed to add it and we say,
current.left is assigned
new Node with value.
Okay, if we go right then we're
gonna say the opposite logics.
If current.right
Then we're gonna say,
current is assigned current.right and
we let the loop run again.
Otherwise, we say current.right
is assigned new Node with value
Okay, in these two cases here 36 and
44, we're gonna say break.
You could also just say return,
which is fine as well.
But I'm gonna say brake.
If you're not familiar with brake,
it just basically means,
hey, I'm in a loop right now
stop being in the loop,okay.
And then I need to get
out of the while loop,
out of the else, in every case I'm going
to return this, which is the tree itself.
Okay, and then two objects just
returns this.root, so that's okay.
So, this should work, let's try.
And let's just make sure that
I take the skip out of here,
I did not So let's try that again.
And bst test is working, cool.
So for funsies let's paste
this over into our visualizer.
Let me go over here into tree, and
I'm just going to paste this right here.
Then we're gonna pop over to our
little tree visualizer here, and
you can see,
this is what my tree looks like.
It's very large at the moment,
maybe a bit too large,
let's do something much smaller,
maybe with 10 elements.
And so you can see here,
it helps me visualize what
my tree ends up looking like,
kinda cool, right?
So you can see this binary search tree and
particular in this case,
it's not super balanced, right?.
So if I try and find 4,
I have to go through 92867 or 86534,
till eventually I find 4, it'd be great if
it was a little bit more balanced, right.
In the sense of, everything was a bit
closer to the root and it was kinda
laid out better, we're kind of at
the mercy of how the numbers are added.
For example, if I don't shuffle these,
let's just visualize what
this looks like when I say,
const nums =.range(10).
What did I do wrong here?
>> You forgot to [CROSSTALK].
>> Yeah, it's getting late in the day,
my friends.
So this looks really hairy.
So you can see here I got 0, and
then it goes to 123456789, right?
So it's all just in one leg.
So if I search for 9,
I got to go through 9 hops.
This is why you're actually not
gonna see binary search trees,
in production ever just normal
straight binary search trees.
Because they run into these
worst case scenarios and
it's not that uncommon to see him, right.
So we're gonna talk about another one
called avielle trees that mitigate this,
but there's lots of strategies for
doing this like red-black trees and
other ones that I can't
think about top my head.
But when you get a random distribution
like this, this isn't terrible, right?
The max depth here is 6.
Or let's do 50 again.
Max depth 11 I mean not great, but
it's a lot better than searching through
50 things, 11 is more palatable.
How about 150?
15, so by tripling it I only
added at most four more hops.
950, 20 right, so you can see,
this is where the logarithmic
lookups really help, right?
So now I have 950 elements
in this array and
at most I have 20 hops to
find what I'm looking for.
It's not too bad, right?
But, if I change this to
const nums down here,
in fact we can just do it,
and I did 100, right,
this is the worst case scenario
now where I have max depth of 100.
If it's unclear this line 56 here
is adding them in order, right,
from 0 to 99, as opposed to 55
is taking the same numbers but
shuffling them in some random order.